Start of Module 3

Vulneratbility - is a weakness that can be exploited by a threat

Exploit - A way of taking advantage of a vulnerability

Vulnerability Management - The process of finding and patching vulnerabilities

1. Identify vulnerabilities
2. Consider potential exploits
3. Prepare defenses against threats
4. Evaluate those defenses

Zero-day - An exploit that was previously unknown

Defense in depth - A layered approach to vulnerability management that reduces risk.

Strategy;

1. Perimeter layer - like authenticaiton systems that validate user access
2. Network Layer -which is made up of technologies like network firewalls and others
3. Endpoint Layer - which describes devices on a network, like laptops, desktops, or servers
4. Application Layer - which involves the software that users interact with
5. Data Layer - which includes any infromation that's stored, in transit, or in use.

Exposure - A mistake that can be explouted by a threat

Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures list (CVE list) - A nopenly accessible dictionary of known vulnerabilities and exposures.

MITRE - A collection of non-profit research and development centers

CVE Numbering Authority (CNA) - An organization that volunteers to analyze and distribute information on eligible CVEs

CVE list criteria;
- Independent of other issues
- Recognize as a potential security risk
- Submitted with supporting evidence
- Only affect one codebase

Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) - A measurement system that scores the severity of a vulnerability

Open Worldwide Security Project (OWASP) - is a non profit foundation that works to improve the seucrity of software.
-- online platform that security professionals from around the world to gather information.

OWASP Top 10 - new or custom made software.

Common Vulnerabilities;

Broken Access Control - Failures in these mechanism can lead to unauthorized infromation disclosure, modification, or destruction.
-- can also give unauthorized access to other business applications.

Cyptographic Failures - Vulnerabilities occur when business fail to encrypt things like PII (using weak hashing algorithm, mD5, more prone to data breach)

Injection - Injection attacks can give threat actors a backdoor into an organization's information systems.
-- common in websites.

Insecure Design - refers to a wide range of missing or poorly implemented security controls that should have been programmed into an application when it was being developed.

Security Misconfigure - occurs when security settings aren't properly set or maintained.

Vulnerable and outdated components - is a category that mainly relates to application development.

Identification and Authentication Failures - when application fail to recognize who should have access and what they're authorized to do, it can lead to serious problems.

Software and data integrity failures - are instances when updates or patches are inadequately reviewed before implementaion.

Security logging and monitoring failures - Having no records of logs that can be used to trace back the event.

Server-side request forgery - When attackers manipulate the normal operations of a server to read or update other resources on that server.

Information - refers to the collection of raw data or facts about a specific subject.

Intelligence - refers to the analysis of information to produce knowledge or insights that can be used to support decision-making.

Vulnerability Assessment - The internal review process of an organization's security systems.

Vulenrability Assessment Process;

1. Identification
2. Vulnerability Analysis
3. Risk Assessmen
4. Remediation

Vulnerability Scanner - is software that automatically compares known vulnerabilities and exposures against the technologies on the network.

External Scans - scan test the perimeter layer outside of the internal network.
Internal Scans - starts from the opposite end by examining an organization's internal systems.

Authenticated Scans - might test a system by logging in with a real user account or even with an admin account.
Unauthenticated Scans - simulate external threat actors that do not have access to your business resources.

Limited Scans - analyzes particular devices on a network, like searching for misconfigurations on a firewall.
Comprehensive Scans - analyze all devices connected to a network. -- operating systems, user databases, and more.

Patch Update - is a software and operating system update that addresses security vulnerabilities within a program or a product.

Penetration Testing - is a simulated attack that helps identify vulnerabilities in systems, networks, websites, applications, and process.

3 Common types of penetration testing;

Open-box Testing - is when the tester has the same priviledge access that an internal developer would have- information like system architecture, data flow, and network diagrams.

Closed-box Testing - is when the tester has little to no access to internal systems-similar to a malicious hacker.

Partial knowledge Testing - is when the tester has limited access and knowledge of an internal system -for example, a customer service representative.


Attack Surface - All the potential vulnerabilities that a threat actor can exploit in the system.

Security Hardening - The process of strengthening a system to reduce its vulnerabilities and attack surface

Simulating Threats; 

Proactive Simulation - assume the role of an attacker by exploiting vulnerabilities and breaking through defenses.

Reactive Simulation - assume the role of a defender responding to an attack.

Threat Actors - Any person or group who presents a security risks.

Five Categories of Threat actor;

Competitors - refers to rival companies who pose a threat because they might benefit from leaked information.

State Actors - are government intelligence agencies 

Criminal Syndicates - refer to organized groups of people who make money from criminal activity.

Insider Threat - can be individual who has or had authorized access to an organization's resources.

Shadow IT - refers to individuals who use technologies that lack IT governance.


Advance Persistent Threat (APT) - refers to instances when threat actor maintains unauthorized access to a system for an extended period of time.


Attack Vectors - The pathways attackers use to penetrate security defenses.

Practicing an Attacker Mindset;
1. Identify a target
2. Determine how the target can be accessed
3. Evaluate attack vectors that can be exploited
4. Find the tools and methods of attack

Defending Attackers;
1. Educating users
2. Applying the principle of least priviledge
3. Using the right security controls and tools
4. Building a diverse security team

Brute force attack;

Simple Brute Force - are an approach in which attackers guess a user's login credentials.

Dictionary attacks - are a similar technique except in these instances attackers use a list of commonly used credentials to access the system.

Reverse brute force - are similar to dictionary attacks, except they start with a single credential and try it in various system until a match is found.

Credential stuffing - is a tactic in which attackers use stolen login credentials from previous data breaches to access user accounts at another organization.

Tools that Attackers use;
- Aircrack-ng
- Hashcat
- John the Ripper
- Ophcrack
- THC Hydra

Prevention Measures;
- Hashing and Salting
- Mult-factor authentication (MFA)
- CAPTCHA
- Password policies





