Start of Module 2;

Security Controls - Safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks

3 Types of Security Controls;
- Technical - Technologies used to protect the assests
- Operational - Maintaining Technologies to protect the assets (people roles)
- Mangerial - used to reduce the risk of the 2 types of security controls (awareness trainings and policies)

Information Privacy - The protection of unauthorized access and distribution of data.

Principle of least priviledge - The concept of granting access to people at minimal to minimize the risk.

Data owner - The person that decides who can access, edit, or destroy their information.

Data custodian - Anyone or anything that's responsible for the safe handling, transport, and storage of information.

Daata steward - The person or group that maintains and implements data governance policies set by an organization.

Separation of Duties - security concept that divides tasks and responsibilities among different users to prevent a single user to have control over critical business functions.

Usage Audits - reviewing of each account usage and if they comply to security policies of the organization.

Priviledge Audits - assess whether the user role is align to their accessibility of information.

Account change audits - used to make sure that all accounts changes are from the user handling the account.

Data lifecycle;
5 Stages;
- Collect
- Store
- Use
- Archive
- Destroy

Data Governence - is a set of processes that define how an organization manages information.

Information Privacy - refers to the protection of unauthorized access and distribution of data.

Information Security (InfoSec) - refers to the practice of keeping data in all states away from unauthorized users.

Privacy - is about providing people with control over their personal information and how it's shared.

Security - is about protecting people's choices and keeping their information safe from potential threats.

General Data Protectoin Regulation (GDPR) - is a set of rules and regulations developed by the European Union (EU) that puts data owners in total control of their personal information.

Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) - is a set of security standards formed by major organizations in the financial industry.
-- Aims to secure credit and debit card transactions

Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) - is a U.S law that requires the protection of sensitive patient health information.
-- prohibits the disclosure of person medical infromation without hteir consent

Security Assessment and Audits;

Security Audit - is a review of an organization's security controls, policies, and procedures against a set of expectation.

Security Assessment - is a check to determine how resilient current security implementation are against threats.


Cryptograhpy;

Cipher - An Algorithm that encrypts information

Cryptography - is the process of transforming information into a form that unintended readers cannot understand.

Cryptographic Key - A mechanism that decrypts ciphertext

Brute force attack - A trial and error process of discovering private information

Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) - An encryption framework that secures the exchange of information online.

Asymmetric Encryption - Involves the use of a public and private key pair for encryption and decryption of data.

Symmetric Encryption - involves the use of a single secret key to exchange information

PKI uses two way method;
- Exchange of encrypted information
- Establish trust using a system of digital certificates.

Digital Certificate - A file that verifies the identity of a public key holder.

Hash function - An algorithm that produces a code that can't be decrypted

Non-repudiation - The concept that the authenticity of information can't be denied

Rainbow Table - is a file or pre-generated hash values and their associated plain text.

Salting is an additional safeguard that's used to strengthen hash functions. 
-- is a random string of characters that's added to data before its hashed/




