
Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) - System that control our public utilities. The threat inside the systems that control or money.

Cybercrime - The use of computers and digital communications for hacking, piracy, pornography, and copyright theft.

A reliable source of statistic on the growth of cybercrime can be found by reading the annual ICS reports (Internet Crime Complaint Centre.

First Major Cyber threat - Cybercrime;

IC3 - Founded in 2000 as a joint effort between the National White Collar Crime Center (NW3C) / Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).

Black Software Laborotories - only aims is to wriete new strain of Malware that can be then used to heist.

Force Multiplier - Connects buyers to seller, cash-out mule to credit card seller and more.

Second Major Cyber Threat - Cyberwar;

Stuxnet - Weapons of the countries that are used to reach into the very heart of our society, the state of the art cyber attacks on utilities, transporation, communication and financial systems can be used to cripple the economy.

Once Cyberweapons are deployed - it will provide the blueprint for every terrorist organization on the planet.

The Third Major Cyber threat - The evolution of the internet as a perpetual surveilance, which could cause irreparable damage to or even destroy modern democracy and civilization.

"Even if you hace nothing to hide, you always have something to fear"

Cyber space - si the place between the places: an undefined space that allows communication across multiple digital devices and across multiple digital pathways - to provide the illusion of instant communication.
-- is a human construct that is infinitely malleable by both operators and skilled hackers.

Triangle of Cybercrime;
1) The generation of possibilities for cybercrime through data theft and malware introduction;
2) The operation and maintenance of cyber-criminals through secondary supply chain; and
3) a seemingly endless supply of low level cyber-criminals and "cash-out-mules"

RATs - it can steal your login IDs and passwords, your banking credentials, monitor your keystrokes and maybe even your physical actions via your webcam.

Cyber criminals uses RAT's to steal information. Different types of RATs;

1. Info-Trojans - exploit onlince social networking and email - stealing data and online credentials, then installing software without permission.
2. Banking Trojans - steals money without you even being aware of it. 
-- Zeus banking trojan feeds you false data, lulling you into a false sense of security.

Art of Embarrassment - The art of data -theft to annoy and destroy.

Types of Cybercrime;

Hacking: The Primal Cybercrime;
- is the archetype of all cybercrime. The hacking methods evolved by the hacking community over the last 30years are used by every cyber-criminal.

Intrusion - The use of techniques to break into another computer, and take control. 
-- The intrusion techniques can be as primitive as guessing a password or as complicated as a cyber-criminal can make it.
-- The use of zero-day vulnerabilities combined with drive-by infection guarantees that no computer is safe.

Exploitation - Once the computer is compromised, the cyber-criminal cna exploit your computer.
-- They can download rootkits that hide their software
-- They can then download RATs, which can watch your every move.
-- They can download other software that takes control of your computer and turn it into a zombie - part of a botnet of illegally hacked computers that are used by organized crime.

Hostile Takeover - Once a RAT or Botnet clients infrects your computer, you no longer own your computer - somebody else does, who could be thousand of miles away.
-- Your computer then can be used to send spam, locate other computers to infect or participate in Distributed Denial of Service Attacks - all in your name.

Denial of Service (DDoS) - Message flooding, by opening many channels with the target computer, by sending many packets at the same time, the target computer grinds to a halt. 
-- The use of botnets to amplify the DDoS attack over thousands, or hundreds of thousands of computers, make things worse.

The Age of Botnets - They steal user information, perform DDoS attacks and send spams.

Internet Mediated Crimes - The knowledge and software uesd to penetrate system security was developed during the golden age of hacking and has now been exploited by cyber-criminals.

Illegal Drugs - There are large number of websites that can allegedly supply drugs to that are illegal in some countries. - usually in "Dark Web"

Pharmaceutical Drugs - Viagra, Valium and other drugs only available by prescription are available on the web.

Online Gambling - Gambling online is illegal in some places and not in others. 
-- Cybercriminals use this fact to host offshore gambling operations accessible anywhere on the internet.

Online Pornography - Porn is legal in some places and not in others.
-- Certain types of Porn is Illegal in almost all places (child porn, animal porn and rape porn, for example)
-- The dark side website should be warned that their credit card details could be stolen and they may be the subject to cyber extortion attempts.

Prostitution - The use of online advertisements to advertise "single hookups" is big business.

Indirect Cost Crimes - Large group of internet crimes whose cost cannot be measured directly.

Spam - is unsolicited bulk email promoting or selling something, often illegal drugs, pornography and other illicit services.

Copyright Violation - It doesn't matter whether it is films, music or software, copyright violation has always been on the internet.

Cyber-stalking - the use of modern internet technologies makes stalking easy. 
-- social networks, webcams , GPS enabled phone and modern devices can make cyber stalking a known threat.

Cyber Bullying - Using of social networking to bully someone to submission or attempt of suicide.

Pay-per Install - The install of unwanted software on the computers of victims such as adware, toolbars, and so called "registry optimization software."

Direct Cost Crimes - These are the internet crimes where the cost can e measured in terms of the money which has been stolen from the victim.

Cyber Commerce - Where the seller lodges money with a bogus escrow agent only to lose their money and their goods. 
-- Online auction fraud is also a problem as stolen or counterfeit goods find their way onti the online marketplace. 

Type of Crimwares;

Exploit Kits - is malware, which is a package of known exploits and zero day vulnerabilities. 
-- These exploits kits are designed to be installed on a malware hosting website. 

---- page 30 continue ---

Test commit
