Cybersecurity Tools;

Log - is a record of events that occur within an organization's systems.

SIEM Tools (Security Information and Event Management tool) - An Application that collects and analyzes log data to monitor critical activities in an organization

Splunk & Google chronicles

Playbook - Manual that provides details about any operational action
-- How to response and handle security breaches.

Network Protocol Analyzer (Packet Sniffer) - A tool designed to capture and analyze data traffic within a network.


Toolkit for Entry level Analyst;

SIEM Tool - is an application that collects and analyzes log data to monitor critical activities in an organization.

Network Sniffers; (Packet Sniffers)

Playbook;
1st Type:
- Chain of custody Playbook - is the process of documenting evidence possession and control during an incident lifecycle.

2nd Type:
- Protecting and Preserving evidence Playbook - is the process to properly working with fragile and volatile digital evidence.
- Order of Volatility - is a sequenfce outlining the order of data that must be preserved from first to last.

Programming - is a process that can be used to create a specific set of instructions for a computer to execute tasks.
Common Programming Languages - Python & SQL

Automation - is the use of technology to reduce human and manual effort in performing common and repetitive tasks.
-- Help reduce the risk of human error.

SQL - is used to create, interact withm and request information from a database.

Database - is an organized collection of information or data.

Data point - is a specific piece of information.

Operating System - is the interface between computer hardware and the user.
Ex. Linux, Windows, macOS

Command - is an instruction telling the computer to do something.

Command Line - is an interface with a text-based user that uses command to interacts with the computer.

Web Vulnerability - is a unique flaw in a web application that a threat actor could exploit by using malicious code or behavior, to allow unauthorized access, data theft, and malware deployment.

AntiVirus Software;
- is a software program used to prevent, detect, and eliminate malware and viruses.

IDS (Intrusion Defense System) - is an application that monitors system activity and alerts on possible intrusion.
-- Scans and analyzes network packets, which carry small amount of data through network.

Encryption - makes data unreadable and difficult to decode for an unauthorized user; its main goal is to ensure confidentiality of private data.

Penetration Testing - is the act of participating in a simulated attack that helps identify vulnerabilities in systems, networks, websites, applications, and processes.




