Security Network;

Network - is a group of connected devices.

LAN (Local Area Network) - A network that spans a small area like an office building, a school, or a home.

LAN -> Internet

WAN (Wide Area Network) - A network that spans a larger geographic area like a city, state, or country.

Hub - is a network device that broadcasts information to every device on the netwrok.
-- is like a radio tower that broadcast a signal to any radio tuned to the correct frequency

Switch - makes connections between specific devices on a network by sending and receiving data between them
-- more intelligent that a hub as it only passes data to the intended destination.

Router - is a network device that connects multiple networks together.
-- connects to the internet through the use of modem.

Modem - is a device that connects your router to the internet, and brings internet access to the LAN.

Virtualization Tools - are pieces of software that perform network operations. 
-- offered by the cloud service providers.
-- allows cost savings and scalability tools.

Network Devices - maintain information and services for users of a network.
-- overall infrastracture that allows devices to communicate with each other.

Data Packets - provide information about the source and the destination of the data.

Each devices and desktop computer has a unique MAC Address and IP Address, which identify it on the network.

Firewall - is a network security device that monitors traffic to or from your network.
-- First line of defense in attacks.
-- can restrict specific incoming and outgoing network traffic.

Servers - provide information and services for devices like computers, smart home devices, and smartphones on the network.

Wireless Access Point - sends and receives digital signals over radio waves creating a wireless network.
-- connect the user to wifi protocols to send through radio waves.	

Wi-Fi - refers to a set of standards that are used by network devices to communicate wirelessly.

Networkd Diagrams - are maps that show the device on the network and how they connect.
-- use small representative graphics to portray each network device and dotted lines to show how each devices connect to each other.

Client Server Model - Client send requesets to the server for informatioin and services.

Cloud Computing - is the practice of using remote servers, applications, and network services that are hosted on the internet instead of an local physical devices.

Cloud Network - is a collection of servers or computers that stores resources and data in a remote datacenter that can be accessed via the internet.

Cloud Service Provider - is a company that offers cloud computing services.

Software as a Service (SaaS) - refers to software suites operated byt the CSP that a company can user remotely without hosting the software.

Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) - referest to the use of virtual computer components offered by the CSP.

Platform as a Service (PaaS) - refers to tools that application developers can use to design custom applications for their comany.

Hybrid Cloud Environment - when organizations use a CSP's services in addition to their on-premise computers, networks, and storage.

SDNs (Software-Defined Networks) - are made up of virtual network devices and services.




