What is threat Emulation?

- Threat Emulation is meant to assist security teams and organisations, in general, in better understanding their security posture and their defence mechanisms and performing due diligence in their compliance.

Cyber Security Assessment Issues;

-- Are our people traned and alert?
-- Are our internal processes effective?
-- has the technology in use properly configure and delivered value to the business?

Vulnerability Assessments - Are conducted to identify vulnerabilities in assets under a defined sccope.

Focus -- Comprehensive and based on the rulse of the engagement defined, as assessments do not include exploitation.

Penentration Testing - involves exploiting vulnerabilities within an organisation under strict control of the scopr and rules of engagement.

Pentest - provide oraganisations with information about their security posture, patching vulnerabilities and where to invest in security training or practices.

Red teaming - provides a means of looking at cyber security issues from an adversary's perspective. 

Threat Emulation - is an intelligence-driven impersonatinon of real-world attack scenarios and TTPs in controlled environment to test, assess and improve an organisation;s security defences and response capabilities.

Real-world threats - The MITRE ATT&CK framework and cyber threat intelligence are common information sources to ensure threat TTPs are based on actual breaches, APTs and campaigns

Behaviour-focused - The execution of TTPs during an emulation exercise aims to tune defences based on behaviours and not signatures, thus adapting to the elements of the Pyramid.

Transparency - Disclosure of activities between the Red and Blue teams during execution ensures that the security posture is improved holistically.

Collaborative - due to common goal of improving organisational security, threat emulations allows team to collaborate in their efforts.

Repeatable - Some emulation tasks would bedone multiple times in the course on an exercise or numerious exercises.

Assessment & Improvement - The goal is to test personnel, assess security processes and evaluate the technology adopted.

Capability Development - Emulation enable the creation, modificaaiton and application of tools and analytics derived from TTPs

Professional Development - This breaks down the barriers between red and blue teams and fosters collaboration missions.



