Network Traffic Analysis;

Core concept of Network Security - Authentication and Authorisation

Base Netwrok Security Control Levels;

Physical - Physical security controls prevent unauthorised physical access to networking device, cable boards, locks, and all linked components.

Technical - Data Security controls prevent unauthorised access to network data, like installing tunnels and implementing security layers.

Administrative - Administrative Security controls provide consistency in security operations like creating policies, access levels and authentication processes.

Main Approaches of Network Security;

Access Control - The starting point of Network Security. It is a set of controls to ensure authentication and authorisation.

Threat Control - Detecting and preventing anomalous/malicious activities on the network.
-- It contains both internal (trusted) and external traffic probes.

Key Elements of Access Controls;

Firewall Protections - Controls incoming and outgoing network traffic with predetermined security rules. 
-- Designed to block suspicious/malicious traffic and application-layer threats while allowing legitimate and expected traffic.

Network Access Control (NAC) - Controls the devices' suitability before access to the network. Designed to verify device specifications and conditions are compliant with the predetermined profile before connecting to the network.

Identity and Access Management (IAM) - Controls and manages the asset identities and user access to data systems and resources over the network.

Load Balancing - Controls the resource usage to distribute (based on metrics) tasks over a set of resources and improve overall data processing flow.

Virtual Private Network (VPN) - Creates and controls encrypted communication between devices (typically for secure remote access) over the network (including communications over the internet).

Network Segmentation - Creates and controls network ranges and segmentation to isolate the users' access levels, group assets with common functionalities, and improve the protection of sensitive/internal devices/data in a safer network

Zero Trust Model - Suggests configuring and implementing the access and permissions at a minimum level (providing access required to fulfil the assigned role). The mindset is focused on: "Never trust, always verify". 
-- more like principle of the least priviledge

Key Element of Threat Control;

Intrusion Detection and Prevention (IDS/IPS) - Inspects the traffic and creates alerts (IDS) or resets the connection (IPS) when detecting an anomaly/threat.

Data Loss Prevention (DLP) - Inspects the traffic (performs content inspection and contextual analysis of the data on the wire) and blocks the extraction of sensitive data.

Endpoint Protection - Protecting all kinds of endpoints and appliances that connect to the network by using a multi-layered approach like encryption, antivirus, antimalware, DLP, and IDS/IPS.

Cloud Security - Protecting cloud/online-based systems resources from threats and data leakage by applying suitable countermeasures like VPN and data encryption.

Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) - Technology that helps threat detection, compliance, and security incident management, through available data (logs and traffic statistics) by using event and context analysis to identify anomalies, threats, and vulnerabilities.

Security Orchestration Automation and Response (SOAR) - Technology that helps coordinate and automates tasks between various people, tools, and data within a single platform to identify anomalies, threats, and vulnerabilities. It also supports vulnerability management, incident response, and security operations.

Network Traffic Analysis & Network Detection and Response - Inspecting network traffic or traffic capture to identify anomalies and threats.



